.\" manpage for auth
.TH "auth" "1" "April 2025" "" "auth manual"

.SH NAME
auth \- command-line TOTP authenticator

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBauth\fR [\fICOMMAND\fR] [\fIOPTIONS\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
A simple terminal-based authenticator CLI written in CPP that generates TOTP codes.

.SH COMMANDS
.TP
\fBadd\fR <n> <secret> [digits] [period]
Add a new TOTP entry with the specified name and secret
.br
Optional parameters:
.br
\- digits: Number of digits in the code (default: 6, range: 6-8)
.br
\- period: Time period in seconds (default: 30)

.TP
\fBlist\fR
List all entries with their current TOTP codes

.TP
\fBgenerate\fR <name or #>
Generate and show the TOTP code for a specific entry

.TP
\fBremove\fR <name or #>
Remove an entry specified by name or #

.TP
\fBinfo\fR <name or #>
Show information for a specific entry

.TP
\fBedit\fR <name or #> [name] [secret] [digits] [period]
Edit an entry specified by name or #
.br
To update only specific fields, use empty strings ("") for fields you want to leave unchanged:
.br
\- Edit only the name: \fBauth edit\fR "Gmail" "New Name"
.br
\- Edit only the secret: \fBauth edit\fR "Gmail" "" "NEWSECRET"
.br
\- Edit only the digits: \fBauth edit\fR "Gmail" "" "" "8"
.br
\- Edit only the period: \fBauth edit\fR "Gmail" "" "" "" "60"

.TP
\fBimport\fR <file> [format]
Import entries from a file
.br
Supported formats: toml, json (default: toml)

.TP
\fBexport\fR <file> [format]
Export entries to a file
.br
Supported formats: toml, json (default: toml)

.TP
\fBwipe\fR
Delete all entries from the database

.TP
\fBversion\fR
Show the current version and commit information

.TP
\fBhelp\fR
Show usage information

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Add a new entry:
.br
\fBauth add\fR "Gmail" "JBSWY3DPEHPK3PXP"

.TP
Add an entry with 8 digits and 60-second period:
.br
\fBauth add\fR "Work VPN" "JBSWY3DPEHPK3PXP" 8 60

.TP
Generate a code for an entry:
.br
\fBauth generate\fR "Gmail"

.TP
List all entries:
.br
\fBauth list\fR

.TP
Remove an entry:
.br
\fBauth remove\fR "Gmail"

.TP
Edit only the period of an entry:
.br
\fBauth edit\fR "Gmail" "" "" "" "45"

.TP
Export entries to JSON:
.br
\fBauth export\fR "backup.json" "json"

.TP
Import entries from TOML:
.br
\fBauth import\fR "backup.toml" "toml"

.TP
Show the current version and commit information:
.br
\fBauth version\fR

.SH FILES
.TP
\fI~/.local/share/auth/auth.db\fR
SQLite database file for TOTP entries

.SH SECURITY
TOTP secrets are stored in your keyring.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B AUTH_DATABASE_DIR
Specifies the directory where the database file (auth.db) is stored. If this variable is not set, the default location $HOME/.local/share/auth/ is used.

.SH OVERVIEW
It is recommended that you have a keyring installed, otherwise this won't work as
TOTP secrets are stored in your keyring.

The keyring requirement will eventually change in the future, there will eventually
be an option to store entries inside of the database in plaintext if the user so
desires.

For the list of dependencies see the submodules.

.SH COMMON MISTAKES
.TP
\fBMy code says Invalid Key!?!?! What do I do??\fR
It is 100% likely that your keyring is not running.

.TP
\fBI can't add my super special secret with cool symbols!!1!\fR
If your secret contains anything other than letters, numbers, spaces, or hyphens, it will be rejected. Base32 encoding only uses those characters.

.TP
\fBMy 12-digit TOTP code doesn't work?!\fR
The app only supports 6-8 digit codes because that's what every sane authentication app uses. If you need more digits, you might also need therapy.

.TP
\fBAuth says "Period cannot be 0"\fR
The time period has to be greater than 0. Common sense.

.TP
\fBI keep getting "Entry not found" when I KNOW it's there!\fR
You can refer to entries by name or #.

.TP
\fBWhere is my database stored? I want to do dangerous things to it!\fR
By default, it's at \fI$HOME/.local/share/auth/auth.db\fR, but you can change it with the \fBAUTH_DATABASE_DIR\fR environment variable.

.TP
\fBI just installed auth but it says it can't save my entries?!\fR
This happens when you ignored the first recommendation about having a keyring installed. Install and run one of these: GNOME Keyring, KDE Wallet. Yes, this means you have to actually READ the documentation.

.TP
\fBWhy can't I export to my favorite obscure file format?\fR
Because we only support TOML and JSON like normal people.

.TP
\fBI added a bunch of entries and now I regret everything!\fR
Use the \fBwipe\fR command to delete everything.

.TP
\fBI can't edit my entry because "Cannot edit entry with unavailable secret"?\fR
This happens when you're trying to edit an entry but the secret can't be retrieved from the keyring. Please make sure your keyring is running.

.TP
\fBHelp! I'm trying to import but nothing happens!\fR
Double-check your file format. If you claim it's JSON but it's actually a picture of your cat, the import will fail.

.TP
\fBWTF!? My long ass entry name doesn't show the full length and has ... at the end\fR
All entries get truncated at 40 characters, for common reasons.

.TP
\fBWTF!? My super long totp secret is also truncated with ... at the end\fR
All secrets are also truncated at 40 characters for common reasons. Secrets are only shown through the info command.

.TP
\fBNone of the above worked!?!?!? What do i do???\fR
Are you trying to run this on Windows? macOS? Your smartphone? Your smart fridge? Sorry to break it to you, but this is a Linux-only tool. It depends on Linux keyrings, Linux paths, and general Linux-ness. If you're not using Linux, your options are:
.br
\- Install Linux
.br
\- Cry quietly in a corner

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs at: https://github.com/nnyyxxxx/auth/issues

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Nyx <nnyyxxxx@protonmail.com>